Add containers release notes for .NET 10 Preview 1 (#9746)
dotnet/core: release-notes/10.0/preview/preview1/containers.md

# Container image updates in .NET 10 Preview 1 - Release Notes

.NET 10 Preview 1 includes the following updates for container images:

> - [Ubuntu is now the default OS](#ubuntu-is-now-the-default-os)

Reviewer: This arguable, but Ubuntu isn't really an OS. We haven't changed Linux as the default (actually only) OS for the convenience tags.

```suggestion
- [Ubuntu is now the default distro](#ubuntu-is-now-the-default-os)
```

> - [Ubuntu is now the default OS](#ubuntu-is-now-the-default-os)

Reviewer 2: Thoughts on listing this first?  I realize it is a short list but this one has the potential to be the most impactful.  It feels like it would be best to list these in order of most impactful.

> - [Ubuntu is now the default OS](#ubuntu-is-now-the-default-os)
> - [New OS: Debian 13 "Trixie"](#new-os-debian-13-trixie)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`10.0-preview` tags using Ubuntu](#ubuntu-is-now-the-default-os)
- [Debian images use Debian 13 "Trixie"](#new-os-debian-13-trixie)
```

- [Ubuntu Chiseled images now contain the Chisel manifest](#ubuntu-chiseled-images-now-contain-the-chisel-manifest)

## Ubuntu is now the default OS

> The default OS for .NET tags has been changed from Debian to Ubuntu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default Linux distro for .NET tags has been changed from Debian to Ubuntu.
```

> The default OS for .NET tags has been changed from Debian to Ubuntu.
> This applies to all .NET tags that do not explicitly specify an OS.
> Debian images are still produced and supported.
> They can be referenced using the `-trixie-slim` suffix.
> 
> - `docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:10.0-preview` - Refers to Ubuntu 24.04 "Noble Numbat"
> - `docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:10.0-preview-noble` - Refers to Ubuntu 24.04 "Noble Numbat"
> - `docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:10.0-preview-trixie-slim` - Refers to Debian 13 "Trixie"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default `10-preview` tags use Ubuntu. Debian has been default distro for previous .NET versions.
This applies to all .NET 10 tags that do not explicitly specify an OS.
Debian images are still produced and supported, as discussed in the next section.

- `docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:10.0-preview` - References an Ubuntu 24.04 "Noble Numbat" image
- `docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:10.0-preview-noble` - References an Ubuntu 24.04 "Noble Numbat" image
```

> ## Ubuntu is now the default OS
> 
> The default OS for .NET tags has been changed from Debian to Ubuntu.
> This applies to all .NET tags that do not explicitly specify an OS.
> Debian images are still produced and supported.
> They can be referenced using the `-trixie-slim` suffix.
> 
> - `docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:10.0-preview` - Refers to Ubuntu 24.04 "Noble Numbat"
> - `docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:10.0-preview-noble` - Refers to Ubuntu 24.04 "Noble Numbat"
> - `docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:10.0-preview-trixie-slim` - Refers to Debian 13 "Trixie"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## `10.0-preview` tags use Ubuntu 24.04

The default `10.0-preview` tags use Ubuntu. The same will be true for `10.0` tags, later in the release.
Debian has been default distro for previous .NET versions.
This applies to all .NET 10 tags that do not explicitly specify an OS.
Debian images are still produced and supported, as discussed in the next section.

- `docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:10.0-preview` - References an Ubuntu 24.04 "Noble Numbat" image
- `docker pull mcr.microsoft.com/dotnet/sdk:10.0-preview-noble` - References an Ubuntu 24.04 "Noble Numbat" image
```

For more information, see:
- [.NET containers supported platforms](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/blob/main/documentation/supported-platforms.md)
- [Proposal: Switch to Ubuntu for .NET convenience tags (dotnet/dotnet-docker#5709)](https://github.com/dotnet/dotnet-docker/discussions/5709)

> ## New OS: Debian 13 "Trixie"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Debian images use Debian 13 "Trixie"
```
